+++
author = "Yukun Lu"
title = "The stoichiometry of soil trace elements plays a critical role in regulating Camellia Oleifera nutrient accumulation and production "
date = "2023-09-23"
description = "The stoichiometry of soil trace elements plays a critical role in regulating *Camellia Oleifera* nutrient accumulation and production"
tags = [
    "Paper",
]
+++

**Lu Yukun, Luo Zipei, YangJing, Wu Lichao, Lu Sheng**

**Abstract**
Understanding the accumulation rule of nutrients is crucial to promote the production of *Camellia Oleifera* . The stoichiometry of soil microelements is more critical than their content in affecting the growth and yield of plants. However, research on *C. Oleifera* in these aspects is limited. In this study, we examined microelement content in soil and various parts of the *C. oleifera* plant and analysed the relationship between the bioaccumulation, distribution, and production of plant trace elements with the stoichiometry of soil trace elements. Our findings indicated that high-yield plants transported more Ca, Mg, and B to the shoot, while low-yield plants stored higher Fe, Zn, and Al in the root. The significantly lower bioaccumulation factor and translocation factor of B and Mg in the high-yield plants highlighted the importance of nutrient storage in promoting *C. Oleifera* yield. Multiple regression analysis and the Mantel test demonstrated that plant yield and bioaccumulation and transportation of trace elements were more closely correlated with the stoichiometry of trace elements than their content. The significantly different stoichiometry of trace elements in soil of different yields revealed that the stoichiometry of trace elements was more sensitive and reliable in reflecting the balance in soil nutrients of *C. oleifera* and regulating its growth. This study provides a comprehensive understanding of the balance in soil trace elements and their relationship with the growth of *C. oleifera* and highlights the critical role of the stoichiometry of soil trace elements in promoting high and stable production of *C. Oleifera*.

<b>Keywords</b>: *Camellia Oleifera*, trace elements, stoichiometry, bioaccumulation factor, translocation factor


<h2><b>1. Introduction</b></h2>

The correlation between soil macro- and microelements and crop yield is well-established, with many studies investigating the optimum nutrient concentration for plant growth (Shtangeeva et al. 2020). Microelements are low in plants but are crucial for plant growth, and both deficiencies and excesses can have adverse effects (Pita-Barbosa et al. 2019, Zhang et al. 2002). Previous studies mainly focused on the stoichiometry of N, P, and K due to their close association with plant growth and neglecting the roles of microelements because the relative low soil content and plant requirements (Xing et al. 2015). Research on soil microelements stoichiometry would offer a comprehensive understanding for the balance of multiple elements in regulating ecological processes (Elser et al. 2010), which is crucial for understanding ‘stoichiometric homeostasis’ and determining the optimal balance of nutrient elements for plant growth.

Most previous studies have concentrated on the relationship between plant yields and soil macro-element contents, such as N, P, and K (Elser et al. 2007, Vitousek et al. 2010), while other physiologically essential mineral elements have been disregarded (Gren and Weih 2012). Trace metal cations, such as Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, Al, and B, are critical for plant growth when present at proper value (Lambers et al. 2008), and would cause toxic effects when deviation from the optimal concentration (Krämer and Ute 2010). Understanding stoichiometric homeostasis necessitates considering the balance with other elements in addition to the element content (Gren and Weih 2020, Jeyasingh et al. 2017). According to Penuelas et al. (2010), each species has an optimal microelements concentration and stoichiometry for better performance in its specific ecological niche. The Ca/Al ratio can efficiently mitigate Al toxicity to roots, and the use of Ca in soil solution would limit the access of Al to roots, which in turn reduces Ca uptake in roots (Sverdrup et al. 1992). Mn2+, as a kind of necessary trace elements, would promote plant growth when the concentration ranging from 200 mg kg-1 to 3500 mg kg-1, with the effect depending on plant species and environment (Hodges 2010, Krämer and Ute 2010, Lambers et al. 2015). Plants may also suffered from Mn toxicity when the Fe/Mn ratio is less than 1.5 (Hodges 2010). Ca/Mg ratio is relatively low with value < 1 in the ultramafic soil samples (Rakić et al. 2013, Tomović et al. 2013). Insufficient Mg content would suppress the uptake of Ca because their similar transport systems (Hermans et al. 2013).

Previous studies have examined the correlation between soil microelement stoichiometry balance and plant growth and have revealed that even plants growing in the same soil can accumulate varying amounts of nutrients and trace elements (Guarino et al. 2019, Mišljenović et al. 2018, Neugebauer et al. 2018). To investigate nutrient balance in soil-plant ecological systems, researchers have typically focused on representative tissues, such as foliage and absorptive roots (McCormack et al. 2015). Plant tissues always exhibit different trace elements stoichiometric when soil environment changes (Mo et al. 2015, Sardans et al. 2017, Schreeg et al. 2014), with trace elements content and stoichiometric in roots are more sensitive than in foliage (Huang et al. 2015). For example, the C:N:P stoichiometry of plant roots tends to be more heterogeneous than soil under different field management practices (Sardans et al. 2012). Absorptive roots as the ‘starting point’ are especially important for nutrient and water uptake and can quickly perceive changes in the availability of soil resources. In contrast, foliage, as the ‘terminal point’, the respond may be weak or have a time lag (Schachtman and Goodger 2008, Walter and Schurr 2005). Plant roots are also efficient at removing potentially toxic metals, such as Cu and Zn, through rapid turnover (Guo et al. 2013). Given their significance and potential differential responses, combining foliage with absorptive roots in stoichiometric studies can improve our understanding of the relationship between plant above- and underground parts (Sardans, et al. 2017). 

*Camellia oleifera* is a highly valuable oil plant in southern China with significant nutritional and medical benefits. It is primarily cultivated on laterite parent materials (Liu et al. 2018), where low soil fertility has hindered its production and industry development. To address this issue, understanding the nutrient accumulation pattern of *C. oleifera* is crucial. As a perennial plant, *C. oleifera* has very strict nutrient requirements; excess nutrient supply results in rapid branch and leaf growth but low yields. Proper nutrient supply and balanced elements are essential to increase *C. oleifera* yields. Using enzymatic stoichiometry analysis, Qiao et al. (2021) found that C and P were the primary limiting factors in *C. oleifera* forests. Hu Yuling (2022) found that microelement fertilizers could promote *C. oleifera* yields. Moreover, B and Fe elements greatly influenced fruit yield and numbers, while C and Ca elements could significantly affect spring shoot growth and flower bud differentiation the following year. However, our knowledge remains limited on macro-elemental stoichiometry in soil and its relationship with plant organs.

To better understand the microelement accumulation pattern in *C. oleifera* and provide guidance for appropriate fertilization, we systematically investigated multi-elemental stoichiometry in soil and different *C. oleifera* organs. Field experiments were conducted in the main planting sites using primary cultivars, and nine trace elements concentrations (Ca, Mg, Cu, Fe, Mn, Zn, Na, Al, and B) in soil and plants were measured. The study was undertaken to address the questions: (1) Does the stoichiometry of soil trace elements affect the accumulation and distribution of elements in *C. oleifera* organisms? (2) Does the stoichiometry of trace elements more accurately reflect the abundance or shortage of soil nutrients than their content? (3) What is the optimal stoichiometry of trace elements for higher *C. oleifera* yield?

<p><h2><b>2. Materials and Methods</b></h2></p>
<p><h3><b>2.1 Site description</b></h3></p>
<p>Hunan Province has the largest *C. oleifera* plantation in China, covering an area of more than 1.5 million hectares and distributed across various locations. To investigate the relationship between soil nutrient supply and plant nutrient accumulation and distribution, we selected four sampling sites over Hunan and established long-term research cooperative relationships with local farmers. Four *C. oleifera* plantation bases were chosen, located in the south, north, east, and west of Hunan Province: Shaoyang City (SY) (27°18'59.61"N, 111°40'12.93"E), Changde City (CD) (29°19'52.48"N, 111°45'36.95"E), Yongzhou (YZ) (26°25'32.69"N, 111°31'50.09"E), and Changsha City (CS) (28°30'38.97"N, 112°50'38.22"E). These study sites have a typical humid subtropical monsoon climate, the average annual rainfall and temperature being 1655.5 mm and 18.6 ℃ for YZ, 1361 mm and 17.2 ℃ for CS, 1484.2 mm and 17.5 ℃ for SY, and 1489.9 mm and 17.2 ℃ for CD. The experiment sites are distribute in low hills with characters of altitude less than 300 m and slope less than 15°. The allitic soil in the research region is clay in texture, and low in soil organic matter and total nitrogen, phosphorus contents. Soil samples were collected in November 2021 after harvest. The soil chemical properties of the four sampling sites are shown in Supplemental Table S1. <p>
<p><h3><b>2.2 Experimental setup</b></h3></p>
<p>At each sampling site, *C. oleifera* plants were categorized into high-yield (H) or low-yield (L) groups based on whether their fruit yield was up to 5 kg. Two primary *C. oleifera* cultivars in Hunan Province, Xianglin No. 1 (XL) and Huajing (HJ), were selected for the study. The sampling was conducted in 8–9 years old trees with a planting density of 1200 plants per hectare. Three sample plots, each measuring 20 m ×20 m, were designated for each group (H-XL, L-XL, H-HJ, and L-HJ). Five representative plants were chosen from each plot, and the minimum spacing >3 m. Soil samples from the 0–20 cm layer were collected from four sides of each plant and combined to obtain a composite soil sample. The composite soil sample from the five representative plants was mixed as one sample for subsequent analyses. A total of 12 samples were collected in each sampling site for physical and chemical properties analysed. Details can be found in a previous study (Lu et al. 2022).<p>
<p>Plant root, stem, leaf, and fruit samples were collected from the five representative plants. In brief, the lateral roots with a diameter of 1 cm were selected as the research objective after digging out *C. oleifera* root. Similarly, the stem with a diameter of nearly 2 cm was collected by cutting it off. The fruit and leaf were collected uniformly from all four sides of each plant. All plant samples were placed in a Ziplock bag and returned to the laboratory, where they were dried for 0.5 h at 105 °C to deactivate enzymes and further dried at 70 °C until a constant weight. The samples were ground through a 0.25 mm sieve for microelement analysis. The yield of *C. oleifera* per plant was calculated by weighing all the harvested fruits.<p>
<p><h3><b>2.3 Soil physiochemical properties</b></h3></p>
<p>Soil pH, soil organic matter (SOM), total nitrogen (TN), available nitrogen (AN), total phosphorus (TP), available phosphorus (AP), total potassium (TK), and available potassium (AK) were determined following the method in a previous study (Bao 2000).<p>
<p>To determine trace element content (Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, Na, Al, and B) in soil and plant samples, they were digested using H2SO4 and HClO4. The solution was boiled at 350 ℃ until it was clear and then filtered prior to analysis using standard Agilent inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. All the assays were performed in three replicates.<p>
<p><h3><b>2.4 Bioconcentration and translocation of the elements</b></h3></p>  
The ability of *C. oleifera* to accumulate trace elements (Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, Na, Al, and B) from soil to the plant biomass was evaluated using the bioaccumulation factor (BAF), while the transfer ability of trace elements to different plant parts was assessed using the translocation factor (TF).
BAF was defined as the ratio of element concentration in the aboveground biomass to that in soil, as the following equation:  

$$
BAF=
$$



